SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS

To determine the influence of the varied parameters, a
variance-based sensitivity analysis has been done.

Two output variables have been considered.
The first one is the number of civilian agents
at the end of each simulation, excluding those simulations which terminated prematurely,
i.e. where at one point there were no civilians left.
We assume that this variable is at an equilibrium by the end of every simulation.

The other output variable is the rate of change over time of the civilian population, i.e.
the rate of change of the number of civilian agents over the course of a simulation.

The following two figures show the main effect indices
for the two output variables, i.e. the contribution of the variance of a
single input parameter to the variance of the output variable.
They have been been calculated varying the respective input parameter while keeping
the other input parameters constant.
We deem the input parameters with higher main effect index more influential
than the other.

INTERPRETATION

As one can see in the first figure [F], the most influential input parameter by far for the number of
civilian agents at the end is the threshold, which an anger difference must exceed for a civilian to be
converted. It has a far greater impact on the number of civilians then the followers, which are the attack
probability of the gangs and the mean accuracy of the police.

Likewise, in the second figure [F], the mean accuracy of the police, followed by the conversion threshold
and the attack probability of the police, dominate over the rest.

That the conversion threshold is so prevalent is surprising.
One would expect that the attack probability of the police and their efficiency play
major roles, but it seems that it is more important to prevent the gangs from recruiting new members.

As a possible explanation for why the conversion threshold is more important than the mean accuracy of
the police one may note that the increase in anger of a civilian involved in a fight ('collateral damage') is
exponentially decreasing. And as the anger increases for both fighting parties, the anger values for both
the police and the gangs will settle down on a similar, high level after a certain time (that is, if the civilian
in question has received little help from either party). When the anger values are similar, a smaller threshold
is needed for the civilian to be converted.
